# PortfolioCS340
Jasmine Procaccini
>How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?

 It's important to follow best practices and proper syntax in order to make readable, adaptable code. Commenting on your code with explanations is important, too. The way you format your code also plays a huge role in it's readability and maintainability. I think that the CRUD module was quite a fun and helpful project to create! CRUD functions are used in all sorts of projects, so having one on hand that I've already created and can adapt for future endeavors is a great addition to my toolkit. If nothing else, I plan to play around with and adapt it for fun in my free time, just to see what else I can use it for.

>How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?

 As a computer scientist, I try to approach problems logically. For the Grazioso Salvare database requirements, I started by listing them out clearly in a document. That way, I could check back on the client's needs throughout my work to ensure I was staying on the right track and meeting all the requirements laid out for me. My approach for this class was slightly different than some other courses since for most things I was starting with a code base and adapting it, rather than making the code fully from scratch. I preferred this, as it allowed me to cut back time coding fairly simple functions and focus more on the specific requirements of each assignment. I think I definitely need a bit more practice creating databases, I still get a bit stuck when it comes to uploading data into them. (Depending on what type of file the data is in initially and how the data is stored in the database, I can get a bit "stuck in the weeds" so to speak). However, I feel much more confident in my understanding of creating and updating databases than I did before this course, which is a good start!

>What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?

 Computer scientists do all sorts of things, I don't think the entire field and all of it's purposes can be summed up adaquately in such a short frame. However, generally speaking, may computer scientists take a client's ideas and desires and create a functioning system based off that. They also maintain, update, and edit systems, and are generally responsible for their security. The internet is used for just about everything these days, from small businesses to education to healthcare, so the job of computer scientists is essential in the functioning of our society. A project like the ones we worked on for this class demonstrates some of the benefits to companies like Grazioso Salvare. With a website, they can better track and organize data about their animals, which makes it easier to find past logs, change logs, and keep all the information accurate and up to date. It also makes it easier for potential customers to find, learn about, and contact them. In turn, that helps more animals find the loving homes they deserve! I am someone who's very morally driven, I care a lot about helping people, and i think that computer science offers a lot of really wonderful opportunities to do that.
